The bonfire was held on the drill field.
Right.
In that era, what was there?
There was no MSC.
No MSC, no.
Was the Cope building there in those days?
No, no.
So the Y. There was Guyon Hall and Goodwin Hall.
And Goodwin.
Yeah.
And then the Y, YMCA.
Well, on the military walk,
There was Ross Hall and it was Foster Hall, I'm not sure what the other.
Ross Hall was where the military science, the commandant was located.
But that wasn't on the same, that was on Military Walk.
It was that street in front of that where we had,
not Guyon Hall, but Goodwin Hall and some other.
And then down at the end there was Guyon Hall where the Rudder Tower is now.
Right in that area.
So that the real western edge of the campus was the drill field.
Well, there was a dairy... But, I mean, that was way across the railroad.
Yeah, across the track.
You had a dairy husband.
There was the train station was down there, you know.
And was the railroad station a comparatively busy place?
Were there people coming and going pretty well?
Yeah, there were people coming and going.
But, you know, I don't know that I ever rode the train out of here.
I can't think of it.
No reason to go over there and hang out or anything?
No, no, no.
It was just a regular train station.
Now, where did you and your buddies go get something to eat or drink?
Well, like I said, we never did eat out anywhere.
Oh, but on campus, didn't you?
Oh, well, it was at George's.
They had, you could eat there.
And then there was something, I was thinking there was something over in the YMCA, but I'm not sure, some kind of snack bar or something over there.
And how often did you go to a movie at Galleon?
Oh, we went to the movie a lot.
And when I started my sophomore year, I started working on the Aggieland.
Oh.
And people in student publications, they would give them free tickets to Guyon Hall.
So I always had a bunch of free tickets to it.
Guy and Hall.
Right now.
It'll cost a dime, I think, to go through it or something like that.
Were you involved when the Longhorn name changed?
Yes, yes.
I wasn't involved, but I was here.
How did that come about?
Well, it's like any other change at A&M that's going to be, you know,
A&M's going to hell, and we may not survive this, and like all these, like the women coming in.
Do you remember whose idea it was to change?
No, I don't.
I was a sophomore.
I was thinking there was an election, but I'm not sure.
I was thinking there was a student election that changed it, but it was very controversial.
You know, it was like, boy, old Army's gone to hell.
Describe working on the Aggieland.
Well, it was, when I was working at a sophomore and a junior, it was just going over there one afternoon a week.
Where was the office?
It was in Goodwin Hall.
In Goodwin.
And we'd go over and we'd, you know, paste up and do things and just, you know.
Who was the sponsor, do you remember?
Yep.
And he wound up as president of Victoria College.
What was his name?
I thought over here just a while back.
I can't think of it right now.
Was he a faculty member?
No, he was in charge of student publications.
Oh, okay.
And he kind of, kind of had a, kind of hunchback.
Okay.
I can't think of his name.
And what led you to get involved in that?
Well, I just wanted to, you know, be involved in some kind of student, do things.
And somebody I knew worked over there, and they told me ought to come over.
But that was your sophomore year?
Sophomore year, yeah.
All right, during your freshman year, do you remember going to Silver Taps the first time?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
What were your feelings when you first went?
I don't know.
I was very impressed.
I know there was always an emotional, emotional thing there.
But we didn't have, you know, we didn't have Silver Taps too many times because there were only about 9,000 students here at that time.
And very few people had cars.
So that brought your risk factor down quite a bit.
In fact in my outfit I can
I think there were only one or two guys that had a car, and we were never sure, you know, where he got it.
But they were just, like in an outfit of 50 people, there'd be one or two cars.
They didn't have much money.
Didn't have any money, you know.
So you didn't go off campus much, you know.
We'd go into Bryan and go to the movie.
But we didn't, we didn't eat it.
It was, I mean, it was rare that anybody ever ate out anywhere.
Now we'd go down in that deluxe cafe sometimes in Bryan and have a sandwich or something there.
Did you walk much to the North Gate or South Gate?
Oh, yeah.
Walk everywhere you... No, no.
I mean, did you go to those North Gate or South Gate much?
Oh, you'd go up there to the cleaners.
You'd go up there to get a haircut.
You might go up there to go to the drug store.
There was a drug store where Lupo's is now.
You might go up there to do that, but there wasn't anything up there except, you know, a bookstore and there was a barber shop and a few things like that.
Did you go up there to church?
Did you do any business with Lupo?
I'm sure I did.
But you didn't ever borrow money from me?
No, no, no.
I knew better than that.
You said you went to church up there.
Describe that.
Well, I went to the Church of Christ there at the North Gate.
My freshman year, I was very religious.
because through religion you could get out a lot of things.
And we had a guy named Newt Cole who was a senior, and he wound up a preacher.
He was preaching at that time and wound up a chaplain in the Air Force.
But he would have, for the freshman, he would have Bible study.
Well, you know, any time he wanted to have Bible study, we'd go because the sophomores couldn't get at us if we were down there at Bible study.
So maybe that's kind of a bad way
Had religion, but we were sure a bunch of religious freshmen.
And we'd go to, you know, a lot of time we'd go up to Northgate to a religious service of some kind just to get away, you know.
Did you go to Sunday school and church?
No, I didn't go to Sunday school, but I went to church on Sunday normally.
What about Sunday night?
Well, it all depended on what was going on around the dormitory.
Freshmen, I mean, the sophomore were on a rage.
Well, man, I got religion.
and I would go to church.
Because I went to Austin College, and the reason we went to Sunday night Westminster Fellowship was because there was a free supper.
Yeah, well, we didn't have any free suppers.
And the cafeteria didn't serve supper on Sunday night.
Was there a Wednesday night prayer meeting?
I think that probably, they probably had them at, you know, like I said, circumstances would dictate whether you would, that was a long walk to the North Gate, you know.
And I presume the congregation was comparatively small.
Yes.
Yeah.
Now, World War II veterans must have been here in large numbers.
What role did they play in the student body and activities and so forth?
Well, they were a lot of them.
They were active in like student publications and things like that.
A lot of them were just, you know, they came back from the war.
They had the GI Bill and they had a wife and a baby.
and they wanted to get their education, so they came in and went to school year round and, you know.
And they were serious students.
They were serious students and they were trying to make up for the lost years of the war.
And it put a lot of pressure on the freshmen, you know, high school core freshmen because you'd have these guys in the class and, you know, they'd break the curve.
You didn't have a chance with those guys in there because they were all, almost all of them, doing very well and they were very serious about it.
Did they treat you guys like you were little kids?
Actually, they really treated us with respect.
We had no problems with the veterans.
College View, I'm assuming, was packed.
Everything was packed.
In fact, they had a trailer park down over where the,
Well, the farmer students and the foundation, somewhere in their area they had a trailer park and they also had some converted barracks over there which they tore down, you know, in the 70s I guess is when they tore those down.
But they had a trailer park in there and people in, these guys were, wherever they could find a room, Bryan College Station or
They were lucky they were out here.
Of course, a lot of them were bachelors, so they lived in the dormitories, and we had a number of veteran outfits in the Corps.
These guys came back and, you know, they wanted to get their, a lot of them wanted to get their commission.
They'd seen what it was to be an enlisted man, so they figured if they were going to go to the next war, they'd go as an officer.
All right.
At the end of your freshman year, you said you had, did you say you flunked one course your freshman year?
Yeah.
All right.
And, but you were not thinking about,
going transferring, you go off on your Navy cruise.
How was being a sophomore better than being a freshman?
Well, it was just a lot better because you didn't have near as much pressure on you and you were more or less your own boss.
Of course, we had these freshmen for the first semester.
They were freshmen the first semester.
But we didn't come down too hard on those guys because they were older and transfer students and everything.
We were very careful about the way we handled them.
But, you know, sophomore year was a breeze.
You didn't have many freshmen on campus.
No.
And so you didn't have anybody coming and taking care of your room or anything.
Oh, no.
You're still in Spider-D.
Yeah.
No, that year, what happened in 47, they activated or they formed the U.S.
U.S.
Air Force out of the U.S.
Army Air Force.
They formed the U.S.
Air Force.
And so there was an arrangement where 40% of the corps of the cadets would be Air Force, 60% would be Army.
So in this reorganization where they were going to organize a number of Air Force units, they deactivated some Army units and they deactivated C Company,
I mean D Company, D-E-F,
and G Company, I think, infantry.
So I was without an outfit, so I went to C Company, because I had a bunch of friends in C Company, so I went to C Company and stayed there one year.
My junior year, they saw that the thing was not in balance, so they reformed D and E Company, so I went back to D Company my junior year.
And I was the first sergeant my junior year, D Company.
What else was different about being a sophomore?
Well, of course, you got a night out.
That was one of the biggest deals.
You didn't have to be, you still had to make, be in CQ, you know, 730, 1030, but you got one night out.
And you, did you select the night?
You picked the night that you wanted out.
And what did you normally do on that night out?
You know, I don't know, but we got out of the darn somewhere.
Did it mean?
Maybe go to the movie or something like that.
Could you leave the campus if you wanted to?
Yeah, you could leave the campus.
Now at Guyon Hall, is it true that sometimes the members of the Corps would whoop it up during a movie or they would boo or they'd cheer?
Oh yeah.
It's like students anywhere I guess.
What about, how often did you all go to the campus theater?
It depended on what was showing.
If it was something good we'd go, usually we'd go to Guyon Hall.
And then starting my sophomore year, you know when I had free tickets,
Oh, because you were working?
Yeah, I was working student publications.
Oh, so that got you free tickets.
And they had free tickets they would give us.
Oh.
Now, I would go, like on a weekend, I would go down to Bryan and go to the movie down there sometimes, you know.
Now, and this is Aggieland, not Battalion.
that you worked on.
Yeah, the Aggieland, the annual.
But that got you a free ticket.
Yeah, it was the Longhorn and then the Aggieland.
Yeah.
Let's see, any special academic courses that sophomore year that you now realize were important?
Any advisors, any teachers?
You know, I don't, I can visualize some of my profs, but
I never, I can't remember most of them's name.
The ones I remember were Screamin' Al Nelson, you know.
Did you have him?
No, I didn't have him, but he was across the hall and we could hear him.
And you remembered why he was nicknamed Screamin' Al?
Yeah, and then there was Dirty Shirt Nelson, the guy who wore one shirt the entire semester.
Then there was another guy.
You may have to edit this, but he was called Cockstory Clark.
Because if you wrote a sexy story, something about sex, you got a good grade.
Now I had him.
And then there was another guy named Get It Greer.
And he had his spiral notebook, and he read his lectures.
Every once in a while he'd say, Get It.
Well that meant that was a test question.
And it was 50 minutes of listening to him read from this spiral notebook, saying Get It.
And, of course, the story goes that some guy one time said, I got it.
And, of course, he got thrown out of class.
But people like that you remember.
And, of course, Dr. Dan the Grade Point man, you always remember him.
He was a great guy.
Did you have a class from him?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Everybody took Dr. Dan the Grade Point.
What course was it?
It was, we called it sexology.
It was rural sociology, family something.
But did you learn in that course?
Yeah, I thought it was a good course, yeah.
Got an A. Yeah, and it was legendary that he made high grades.
Yeah, Dr. Dan, the grade point man.
Did he become a kind of a friend?
Actually, no.
Can't say that he did.
Everybody liked him.
You know, he was a very likable fellow.
And I had some, you know, ag-eco profs that I liked.
I remember one fellow was kind of heavyset and bald-headed, but I don't remember what his name was.
Who did you go to for academic advice?
Hmm, I don't know.
What do I take now?
Should I do this or do that or?
Well, we had, you could get some help down at the, in the Ag building at the dean's office or, I had to go see the dean in order to change majors.
I remember that Shepard, Dean Shepard, had to go see him, but I can't remember about.
Because R.C.
Potts wasn't the dean yet, was he?
No.
And did you ever have a class with O.D.
Butler?
I think I may have had him for an animal husbandry, but I can't, I really can't remember.
And didn't have time.
I know I had Whiteley, Eli Whiteley for agronomy, I think.
Now, let's see, he was a national,
He was a, wasn't he a Congressional Medal winner?
He was a Medal of Honor winner, yeah.
Did, were you students aware of that thing?
Oh, yeah.
Were you?
Yeah, he was a hero, you know.
Describe him as you remember him as a person.
Well, I remember he was, he was tall and thin.
Of course, this was right after the war, and he'd been, been pretty seriously injured.
He'd probably been in the hospital a long time, but I remember he was just tall and thin.
And it might have been, I don't know if it was agronomy lab or just a regular agronomy class, but we had him and we were, you know, really in awe of this guy because he was a Medal of Honor winner.
How did you all learn he was a Medal of Honor?
He didn't tell you, did he?
Oh, no.
Oh, that's one of those things that you just know.
Because wasn't he very modest about it?
Yes, yeah, I think so, yeah.
That's what I thought.
Let's see.
Any celebrity visitors that you remember coming to the campus?
Well, we had Spike.
Spike.
Jones.
Spike Jones came one time at the town hall.
And we had big dances at Cebisa.
And, you know, that was a big deal.
And we had, I remember Vaughn Monroe was there.
And Tex.
Benneke.
And there were some big name bands that came through there.
I mean, that's Sabisa Hall, that thing would be packed with people.
Did you normally have a date for those things?
I'd normally just go up and bird dog.
Is that what Joe called it?
Yeah, cut in on people.
And how were the girls treated at those dances?
you know, like ladies, very nice.
And they'd bring them down from TSCW and they'd put them in our dormitory.
We'd have to evacuate the dormitory.
They would stay in our room in the dormitory.
And of course the big deal was you left notes for them, you know, hoping that they'd write you.
But I never did have, I may have had a date or two while I was a freshman from a girl to Brian.
And I think I may have had a date or two
during my sophomore year, but I never did have girls come down and see me or anything until my senior year.
And, but that was, you know, that was a lot of fun.
Those big dances, you'd go over and cut in on people, and especially you'd get a sophomore and had his girlfriend there, and you'd go cut in on him.
And, you know, there wasn't anything he could say until later, you know, he'd let you know about it.
Now, did people ever go outside and drink some alcohol?
It was done at times.
But rather rare?
There wasn't much alcohol.
You know, you couldn't have liquor on campus.
I went on that Navy cruise I was telling you about, and I brought back a little old bottle of rum from Cuba.
I think it was from Cuba.
And I had it in my footlocker, which I always kept locked.
I was scared to death that whole year that I had that bottle of rum in there.
I wasn't drinking it.
I just had it.
I don't know why I kept it other than I'd brought it back from, you know, Caribbean.
But there was really no drinking on campus except my freshman year.
first semester we'd have beer bust in the dorm and they'd go out and bring in a keg of beer and we'd have it there in the dorm and everything and of course it was pretty bad because a lot of you know most of the freshmen were 17 and they'd get a pitcher and they were trying to you know they knew they were going to get drunk so they got drunk you know and they'd fall and they'd get sick and you know it was terrible going in there they'd just take them and
throw them in the shower and turn the water on, you know, they'd be sick and everything.
If officially y'all had gotten caught.
Been in trouble, been in trouble.
Could anybody, would it have been unusual to be suspended for?
I would imagine the company commander or someone would have been in trouble.
But anyway, we never, I never heard of anybody getting caught.
And I think it was just tolerated.
I think that they probably would rather you do it in the dorm.
And that's the way when I was commandant.
I'd rather them drink in the dorm than out here driving around.
But anyway, we did have some big beer busts there.
And as far as going, I know, I'm not even sure I did it my freshman year, but I know later on, you know, we'd go out to Ed's, which was still out on Weldon Road, go out there and have a beer.
How far down?
was Uncle Ed's.
It wasn't as far as 2818 is.
Oh, no, no, no.
There was an athletic complex they built out there.
I don't know if you know where that is, which would be on Holloman.
It was between the campus and Holloman and right in there somewhere.
And beer was legal there.
Is that right, at Uncle Ed's?
Yeah, yes.
But no, nothing stronger.
No, not what I know we're doing.
Was the, as far as you recall, did they check to be sure that you were at a legal age?
Never checked, never checked in my life.
And it was only beer.
I know my sophomore year, a good friend of mine, Bob Gregg, who was one of my good close buddies my sophomore year, we used to hitchhike out to the, I forgot what they call it, where 21,
I think they called it the circle, where 21 intersected Highway 6.
And there was the Oasis, I think, and there was Nova Sad or Nova somebody, he was a football player.
There were two or three beer joints there.
And we would go out there on Saturday night and sit there and drink a couple beers and sometime there would be somebody around to dance with.
And, you know, usually we just went out there and drank a couple of beers, and we'd hitchhike out, and then we'd hitchhike back, and that was our Saturday night.
Now, there was no... But we were, I think, I think you had to be 18 in those days to drink a beer, but that's... I haven't had anybody mention any bootlegger in Brazos County.
Well, if there was, I don't know anyone.
Nobody, and... There were people coming around,
football bets, I remember that.
That would come and the guy would sit out in the car and he'd send his runner in and take football.
I never did that on that.
And Whiskey Bridge, people did drive to Whiskey Bridge to buy hard liquor.
Yeah, that's right.
You could get it there.
Did you ever go to the clay pits to go swimming?
Well, we went to the clay pits to use the board.
That's where they did it when I was a freshman.
Okay.
Second semester.
When they'd crack down, they'd go out to the clay pits.
And I remember that's where they beat our handle off.
But now sometimes didn't a group go out there and skinny dip and drink some beer?
I'm sure they did.
I don't know that I ever did.
I'd really like to know where the clay pits are located.
Nobody that I've talked to can really remember.
I don't know.
It's just out that way somewhere.
That's what most of them say.
Let's see.
YMCA, were you involved in any YMCA activities?
No.
MSC, of course, wasn't here yet then.
No, we didn't have anything like that.
Did you go to the Quack Shack?
The college hospital?
Well, I think I probably went over there, but I can't, you know, I can't remember.
If I did, it was just for a cold or something.
So you didn't get my Asperg, you know.
You didn't break a wrist or anything?
No, I was never injured, and I don't know that I was ever really sick when I was here other than colds.
Oh, let's see, two people.
Do you remember Mr. Cashin?
Red's dad.
See, he's the one that created the Y. What about Colonel Andy?
Yeah, yeah, he was a track coach.
Describe him.
Well, he's a little, I don't know, a little shark guy.
What kind of personality?
Well, kind of a cocky type as far as I remember, but I don't remember much about it because I didn't, you know, I didn't go out for track or anything.
Pleasant?
I don't know.
I remember Marty Corot was the,
I think he was a baseball coach.
Of course, there was Homer Norton was a football coach.
Then I think Harry Steitler came in after Homer Norton.
You know, those were just guys you'd see the distance and you didn't, you know.
What did you and your buddies think about the athletes?
How were they treated?
Were they, did they get?
Well, a lot of them were in the Corps.
Did they really participate in the Corps?
Yeah, yeah.
Some were, you know, I know there's one guy who was a company commander
As far as y'all knew, were they given automatic passing grades?
No.
Let's see.
Were there celebrity students during your days, famous students?
No one that I knew was famous.
There was no All-America football player then.
There was no Dick Todd or John Kimbrough.
They had been early, and there was none, and nobody who was hugely wealthy.
Describe, in general, your four years, describe the Indian student body.
What kind of boys were they?
Well, mostly rural.
They were from smaller towns.
and I'd say middle class.
What kind of values did they use?
Well, I think they had the values of the Depression years.
Hard-working?
Hard-working and honest and straight shooting, you know.
If somebody told you something, that was usually the way it was.
You didn't have too many con artists.
Did it matter where you came from?
It didn't matter where you came from or what you did.
It's the same way in the core of the day.
They don't care where you're from or how much money your father has or any of that.
What did matter?
Well, how you performed, how you acted.
Do you remember, were there some Catholic and Jewish and Protestant boys?
Oh, yeah.
All kinds.
In fact, one of my good friends, I didn't know for
probably three years that he was Jewish.
His last name was Clark, and that didn't sound like Goldstein or anything.
I didn't know that until I looked in the annual one time and saw he was a member of the Hillel Club.
Were there Hispanics?
Yeah, there were a few, not too many, but I had some good friends that were Hispanic, and they were treated just like anyone else and respected.
I know we had a couple of them from Laredo,
that were in my class that were good friends?
There were almost no international students, though.
Not many, not many.
They were, now like I said before, we had, when I was in my sophomore year, we had a couple of cadets that were from Guatemala that were in the Corps.
I'm not sure there were any other international students in that group.
I can't think of any, but we had a few foreign students.
I know that we heard the story that
that the housing put a Pakistani and a Hindu in the same room, and the Pakistani spent the night sharpening his knife, and they had to separate them the next day.
So, you know, they both had turbans, I think.
The housing, they had turbans of turbans, so.
But that was a story going around about that time.
That's about the time they got their independence.
You mentioned, a while ago we mentioned Silver Taps.
What else was serious at A&M?
Silver Taps?
Do you remember going to Muster as a student?
Well, yeah.
Muster, we had that.
The one I can recall was down on the steps of the administration building.
We had the Muster there.
And I'm sure I went all four years, but that's, we may have had several there.
But those, that's the muster I recall.
And that was, you know, that was a serious tradition.
Silver Tafts is a serious tradition.
A lot of things that, you know, I didn't think were too serious, but people call them traditions.
Now, the MSC was not finished when you left, was it?
They were building the MSC when, when,
I had my final review in 1950.
I guess it was 1950.
And were there any religious activities on campus?
Were there religious clubs?
Yeah, there was the Hillel Club for the Jewish students.
There was the Newman Club for the Catholics.
And, of course, there was the Baptist Student Union.
I don't know what else they had.
And Renaissance Week, was it held then?
I think it was, yeah.
Where the ministers would come and be here a week or something?
Yeah, I hadn't thought about that in a long time, but I think we had that.
Who was the commandant then?
My first two years was Gaius Malloy.
M-U-L?
M-E-L-O-Y.
Malloy, yeah.
Okay.
Describe him.
Oh, he was a super soldier.
He had been a regimental commander, decorated in World War II, and then he went to Korea.
He was the regimental commander of one of the regiments, 2nd Infantry Division, I think.
One of the Distinguished Service Cross was wounded.
And then, last time I saw him, he was the
commander of the 8th Army and U.S.
force, or U.N.
forces in Korea.
He came down to speak to us one time.
I think we had a muster, I think is what it was, and he came, he was our muster speaker when I was about 63 when I was in Korea.
And he was there the first two years, and the second two years was Hayden L. Boatner, the boat.
Yeah, describe him.
Okay, he was a little cocky.
loud, aggressive officer.
He had been a BG in World War II.
He was with Stilwell in Burma and then he was, like so many, he was reduced back to colonel after World War II and he came here as a full colonel and boy, he was really tough.
He could stand out there on that parade ground and you could hear him all the way across the parade ground and I know one time
I had to go in because one of my sophomore, when I was a company commander, one of my sophomores had been caught